# [Scriptable Events](../README.md)

## 2. Listen to the event

```csharp
using Incantium.Events.Send;
using UnityEngine;

/// <summary>
/// Class responsible for updating the health bar when the proper event has been received.
/// </summary>
public class HealthBar : MonoBehaviour
{
    [SerializeField] 
    [Tooltip("The event bus listening to changes within health.")]
    private FloatEventBus eventBus;

    private void OnEnable() => eventBus.onReceive += UpdateHealthBar;

    private void OnDisable() => eventBus.onReceive -= UpdateHealthBar;

    /// <summary>
    /// Method to update the health bar with a new value. This method is called when the event channel is called.
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="health">The new health to display.</param>
    private void UpdateHealthBar(float health)
    {
        // Update health bar.
    }
}
```

To listen to any event channel, we will create a new script that handles the logic of doing something when the event
channel is called. The given code above has the most basic implementation of listening to an event channel. The
following points can be noted:

- Create a serialized field for the desired event channel. Each event channel is a
  [ScriptableObjects](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/ScriptableObject.html), so any
  [MonoBehaviour](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/MonoBehaviour.html) script requires a
  field that is serialized within the Unity Editor (either public or with the
  [SerializeField](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/SerializeField.html) attribute). To
  make the script use the correct event channel, drag that event channel in through the Unity Editor.
- Listening to an event channel works with the `onReceive` or `onRequest` C# event. You can subscribe a method to the
  event by using `+=`, and unsubscribing with `-=`.
- For the lifecycle of the event channel usage, it is generally advisable to either use `OnEnable`/`OnDisable` or
  `Start`/`OnDestroy`. The latter option gives you the option to call scripts on game objects that have been disabled,
  while the first option negates this.
- The method attached to the event will be called when the event channel is called. The method signature is determined
  by the event. It is often prevented to attach a method instead of an anonymous one.

> **Warning**: Do not forget to remove the event handler (the method after the `+=`) when listening to the event channel
> is not needed anymore. Methods added to the event channel will persist between Unity Editor play sessions (because
> an event channel is an [ScriptableObjects](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/ScriptableObject.html)).
> Forgetting to remove the event handler can lead to unwanted side effects. You can manually remove all the event
> handlers from an event channel by clicking on the "Reset" button in the Unity inspector or by calling the `Reset()`
> method.
