# [Scriptable Events](../README.md)

## 5. Custom inspector

As you may have noticed, all custom-made event channels won't show the expected inspector as shown with the pre-build
implementations. This is because each pre-build implementation also has one script for the custom inspector. These
custom inspector scripts can also easily be made for your own custom event channels. Here below is an example of a
custom inspector script with an enum value:

```csharp
using Incantium.Events.Send;
using UnityEngine;

#if UNITY_EDITOR
using Incantium.Events.Editor.Send;
using UnityEditor;
#endif

public enum Options
{
    A,
    B,
    C
}
    
[CreateAssetMenu(menuName = "Events/Send/Enum")]
public class EnumEventChannel : EventBus<Options> {}

#if UNITY_EDITOR
[CustomEditor(typeof(EnumEventChannel))]
public class EnumEventChannelEditor : EventBusEditor<Options>
{
    protected override Options DrawParameterField(Options current)
    {
        return (Options) EditorGUILayout.EnumPopup(GUIContent.none, current);
    }
}
#endif
```

Using the EventBusEditor or EventTruckEditor makes it possible to more easily create the custom inspector for your 
custom event channel. However, a basic knowledge of IMGUI in Unity is required here. 

It is recommended to use 
[EditorGUILayout](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/ScriptReference/EditorGUILayout.html) within the 
`DrawParameterField` method. This will result in the creation of the correct field if the correct method has been used.

However, not everything is serializable in the Unity Editor. These are things like standard C# classes, structs, 
interfaces and so on. In such cases, you can use the `EventBusViewer`/`EventTruckViewer` class instead of the
`EventBusEditor`/`EventTruckEditor`. These remove the option to invoke the event channel from the inspector, but keep it
possible to see which methods are listening to the event.

> **Note**: For demonstration purposes, the editor scripts and the event channel implementation have been added 
> together. The use of `#if UNITY_EDITOR` is not recommended because it can easily cause non-compiling builds. It is 
> better to create a new folder named ["Editor"](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SpecialFolders.html) or work with 
> [assembly definitions](https://docs.unity3d.com/6000.0/Documentation/Manual/assembly-definition-files.html) 
> specifically said to run only in the Unity Editor.
